Fifth Sunday in Lent, March 22nd 2026 at 11 AM

In community with one another, 
we are called to be the embodiment of God’s love in the world.

Teaching Time: #925, Beautiful Things 

Prelude and Ringing of the Bell 

WE GATHER FOR WORSHIP

Acknowledgment of the Land
Trinity Lutheran Church acknowledges that we live and worship on the traditional territories of the Indigenous peoples of the Treaty 6 region and the Métis Nation of Alberta, Region 4. Together we call upon all of our collective, honoured traditions and spirits to work in continuing right relationship that we may create a more vibrant, healthy community for today and future generations.  

 
Call to Worship 
P: Let us sing together
C: Let us sing a new song
P: Let us sing
C: Let us sing, all the earth, all of creation
P: Let us sing
C: Let us sing praises to God! 

 
Greeting
P: 	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
C: 	And also with you.

Gathering Song: #922, When We Are Tested









Confession and Forgiveness
P: God of grace
C: We see you standing in front of us and we look elsewhere. Then we get a glimpse of your glory, and we are confused and frightened. Forgive us. We aren’t always able to realize who you are or how deeply we need your grace. God of grace, you call us to receive you. Strengthen us to watch, listen, follow, learn, and to receive you on the way as our Way. Amen.

Assurance of Forgiveness

Prayer of the Day
P: Holy God, Creator of Life
C: You call us out of our dark places, offering us the grace of new life. When we see nothing but hopelessness, you surprise us with the breath of your spirit. Call us out of our complacency and routines, set us free from our self-imposed bonds, and fill us with your spirit of life, compassion, and peace. In the name of Jesus, your anointed one, we pray. Amen.

Family Time – Beautiful Things
WE HEAR GOD’S WORD
Reading: 

John 11:1-20 
There ‘was a certain man who was very ill. He was known as Lazarus from Bethany, which is the hometown of Mary and her sister Martha. 2 Mary did a beautiful thing for Jesus. She anointed the Lord with a pleasant-smelling oil and wiped His feet with her hair. Her brother Lazarus became deathly ill, 3 so the sisters immediately sent a message to Jesus which said, “Lord, the one You love is very ill.” 4 Jesus heard the message and said, “His sickness will not end in his death but will bring great glory to God. As these events unfold, the Son of God will be exalted.” 5 Jesus dearly loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. 6 However, after receiving this news, He waited two more days where He was. Jesus spoke to the disciples, 7 “It is time to return to Judea.” The disciples were concerned, 8 “Teacher, the last time You were there, some Jews attempted to execute You by crushing You with stones. Why would You go back?” Jesus answered, 9 “There are 12 hours of daylight, correct? If anyone walks in the day, that person does not stumble because he or she sees the light of the world. 10 If anyone walks at night, he will trip and fall because he does not have the light within. 11 Our friend Lazarus has gone to sleep, so I will go to awaken him.” The disciples responded, 12 “Lord, if he is sleeping, then he will be all right.” 13 Jesus used “sleep” as a metaphor for death, but the disciples took Him literally and did not understand. 14 Then Jesus spoke plainly, “Lazarus is dead, 15 and I am grateful for your sakes that I was not there when he died. Now you will see and believe. Gather yourselves, and let’s go to him.” Thomas, the Twin spoke to the rest of the disciples,16 “Let’s go so we can die with Him.” 17-18 As Jesus was approaching Bethany (which is about two miles east of Jerusalem), He heard that Lazarus had been in the tomb four days. 19 Now many people had come to comfort Mary and Martha as they mourned the loss of their brother. 20 Martha went to meet Jesus when word arrived that He was approaching Bethany, but Mary stayed behind at the house.

R: Receive the story of our God
C: Thanks be to God
Psalm: Name that Walks Beside (verse 4)
P: The Gospel according to John 
C: Glory to you, O Lord 




















John 11: 20b-45
Martha wept, 21 “Lord, if You had been with us, my brother would not have died. 22 Even so I still believe that anything You ask of God will be done.” Jesus tried to reassure her, 23 “Your brother will rise to life.” Martha was grieved, 24 “I know. He will rise again when everyone is resurrected on the last day.” Jesus explained further, 25 “I am the resurrection and the source of all life; those who believe in Me will live even in death. 26 Everyone who lives and believes in Me will never truly die. Do you believe this?” Martha declared, 27 “Yes, Lord, I believe that You are the Anointed, the Liberating King, God’s own Son who we have heard is coming into the world.” 28 After this Martha ran home to Mary. Martha whispered to Mary, “Come with me. The Teacher is here, and He has asked for you.” 29 Mary did not waste a minute. She got up and went 30 to the same spot where Martha had found Jesus outside the village. 31 The people gathered in her home offering support and comfort assumed she was going back to the tomb to cry and mourn, so they followed her. 32 Mary approached Jesus, saw Him, and fell at His feet. She sobbed, “Lord, if only You had been here, my brother would still be alive.” 33 When Jesus saw Mary’s profound grief and the moaning and weeping of her companions, He was deeply moved by their pain in His spirit and was intensely troubled. Jesus asked, 34 “Where have you laid his body?” Neighbours replied, “Come and see, Lord.” 35 As they walked, Jesus wept; 36 and everyone noticed how much Jesus must have loved Lazarus. 37 But others were skeptical. “If this man can give sight to the blind, He could have kept him from dying. They are asking, if Jesus loves Lazarus so much, why didn’t He get here much sooner?” 38 Then Jesus, who was intensely troubled by all of this, approached the tomb—a small cave covered by a massive stone. 39 Remove the stone,” he commanded. Martha was hesitant. “Lord,” she said “he has been dead four days; the stench will be unbearable.” Jesus assured her, 40 “Remember, I told you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God.” 41 They removed the stone, and Jesus lifted His eyes toward heaven. And he prayed, “Father, I am grateful that You have heard Me. 42 I know that You are always listening, but I proclaim it loudly so that everyone here will believe You have sent Me.” 43 After these words, He called out in a thunderous voice. “Lazarus, come out!” 44 Then, the man who was dead walked out of his tomb bound from head to toe in a burial shroud. Jesus called, “Untie him, and let him go.” 45 As a result, many of the Jews who had come with Mary saw what happened and believed in Him.




P: The gospel of the our Lord
C: Praise to you, O Christ
Sermon 
Hymn of the Day: Lord, If Only You Had Been There based on John 11:1-45
Tune: BEACH SPRING 8.7.8.7 D: (please refer to your insert)

WE RESPOND TO THE WORD
Offering Prayer
Apostles’ Creed (p. 17)
Prayers of Intercession 
P: God of resurrection	C: Call our names, call us to life
Sharing of the Peace 
Communion
P: 	The Lord be with you
C: 	And also with you.
P: 	Lift up your hearts.
C: 	We lift them to the Lord.
P: 	Let us give our thanks and praise to the Lord our God.
C: 	It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Sanctus (ACS, Setting 11, p. 20)

P: Remembering his love for us on the way, at the table, and to the end, we proclaim the mystery of faith:
C: Christ has died, Christ is risen, Christ will come again.

Lord’s Prayer

Communion Hymns: 
Choir: Were You There When They Crucified My Lord?  Arr. Hal Hopson

WE ARE SENT OUT TO SERVE
Announcements 
Blessing
Sending Song: #925, Beautiful Things
Dismissal
P: God is, love does C: In the footsteps of grace we become, and we follow!

Thank you to everyone who helped with our service this morning: 
Presiding Pastor & Preacher: Pastor Erin Thomas; Pianist/Organist: Cherie Larson; 
Special Music: English Choir, Director: Agnes Melax; 
Ushers/Readers: Beverly Kavanaugh, Richard & Wauneita Garrett, Monica Bishop; 
Livestream: Frank Thede; Bulletins: Sorin Tomuta.
